Software template page (#191)
arfc/arfc.github.io: software_templates.md

[example](https://github.com/uwescience/shablona/tree/master/examples) provided.

## Cookiecutter
[Cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter) is not a template 
repository like Shablona, instead it is a command-line utility that
allows you to build a repository from a "pantry" of templates. This project has 
an extensive 
[Read the Docs](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/index.html), and 
it's definitely worth a review before you decide. 

Additional documents that will give you a sense of whether or not to use this 
utility:
1. [Getting to Know Cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/tutorial1.html) 
2. [Usage](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/usage.html)
3. [Building a Cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/first_steps.html)

# Software Project Parts
Even if neither of the above templates fit your requirements, there are still 
some pieces that might benefit your project. JOSS (The Journal of Open Source 
Software) has 
a useful [review checklist](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_checklist.html) 
for reviewers that you should review before beginning your project. 

## Make Files

> Makefile is a program building tool that operates with the make utility to 
> compile or re-compile a program or process through a user-defined command in the 
> command-line. They are extremely useful tools that make it a lot easier for 
> contributors or reviewers to compile and run your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Makefile is a scripting tool that
compiles or re-compiles a program or process through a user-defined command in the command-line: ``make``. Makefiles streamline the build process for project contributors or reviewers.
```

#### Resources:
- [Introduction](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Introduction.html)
- [Writing Makefiles](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Makefiles.html#Makefiles)
- [Tutorial](https://makefiletutorial.com/)

## CMake Files
CMake generates makefiles, similar Make or a makefile, except that it is much 
more compatible with C++.

#### Resources:
- [Overview](https://cmake.org/overview/)
- [Step-by-step Tutorial](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/guide/tutorial/index.html)
- [Wiki](https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/community/-/wikis/Home)

> 

Reviewer: I would include a section about ``Snakemake`` as well.

Author: Thank you for the suggestion, and feedback! If there are other resources or platforms that you use I'd love to include them as well

## Docker Files
A Dockerfile is a text file that contains commands that can be used from the 
command line to generate images. 

> Like a makefile, docker build can automate a series of command line 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like a Makefile, docker build can automate a series of command line 
```

instructions. Several links have been 
provided as informational resources, and there exists a template file. 

Here is a 
[template dockerfile](https://gist.github.com/ju2wheels/3d1a1dfa498977874d03), 
which also has a lot of useful information on what different components do.

#### Resources:
- Information on [Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/)
- A [Quickstart Guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/)
- A [Best Practices Guide](https://docs.docker.com/develop/dev-best-practices/)

## Automated Testing

> If you think this project may end up having multiple contributors, or would benefit 
> from a series of tests run on every commit, you might want to check out 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuous integration with CircleCI allows users to verify that their contributions do not break any software functionality.
```

> circleci. Circleci allows you to build automatic tests that can run in a couple 
> ways, notably before every pull request. This functionality can take some time 
> to develop, but if you expect multiple contributors or a lot of pull requests 
> you might want to consider implementing tests like this. An example repository 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CircleCI automatically builds environments and executes tests before every pull request. An example repository 
```

> is [PyNE](https://github.com/pyne/pyne), which employs circleci to run multiple 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is [PyNE](https://github.com/pyne/pyne), which employs CircleCI to run multiple 
```

tests on every pull request. 

#### Resources:
- [Getting Started](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/hello-world/)
- [Tutorial](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/tutorials/)
- [Examples](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/sample-config/)

## Licensing
Every repository that is a part of the ARFC Github Organization should have some 

> form of license. Choosing a license can seem like a very daunting task, but for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
form of license. Choosing a license can seem daunting but for 
```

> many software projects a simple 
> [BSD-3 Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause.html) will cover your
> project. In the case that your project uses pieces under a different license, there are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a simple 
[BSD-3 Clause](https://spdx.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause.html) will cover many
software projects. If your project uses pieces of code under a different license, there are 
```

many ways you can address it. 

One suggestion is that you create separate directories for the code that is 
under the other license. In the separate directory, you can then include the 
license that covers the code in that directory. 

Another suggestion is that you add all the licenses to the docs 
folder and then indicate which files or directories are covered under the 
respective licenses in the README.md files in the directory covered by it, or in 
the file itself.

> There are many other ways to abide by differing licenses, the above are simply 
> suggestions about how to go about it and should not be taken as legal advice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many other ways to abide by differing licenses, the above are simply 
suggestions and should not be taken as legal advice. 
```

> Ensure that, regardless of the method you use, you are abiding by the 
> requirements of any software you are using or adapting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the method you use, make sure you are following the 
requirements of any software you are using or adapting.
```

2. [Usage](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/usage.html)
3. [Building a Cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/1.7.2/first_steps.html)

# Software Project Parts
Even if neither of the above templates fit your requirements, there are still 
some pieces that might benefit your project. JOSS (The Journal of Open Source 
Software) has 
a useful [review checklist](https://joss.readthedocs.io/en/latest/review_checklist.html) 
for software that you should review before beginning your project even though 
this checklist was made for reviewers and not creators. 

## Make Files
Makefile is a program building tool that operates with the make utility to 
compile or re-compile a program or process through a user-defined command in the 
command-line. They are extremely useful tools that make it a lot easier for 
contributors or reviewers to compile and run your project.

#### Resources:
- [Introduction](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Introduction.html)
- [Writing Makefiles](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/html_node/Makefiles.html#Makefiles)
- [Tutorial](https://makefiletutorial.com/)

> ## CMake Files

Author: For this, are you talking about the order of the sections?

> ## CMake Files

Reviewer 2: I just thought this was a typo. I thought you meant Make Files instead of CMake Files

permalink: /manual/guides/software_templates
---

Software projects are often unique with specifications that 
exceed the capabilities of a single template. However, there are some cases 
where a template can save a lot of time and overhead. This document will 
hopefully provide ARFC members with the individual tools to mix and match as 

> they create software projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exceed the capabilities of a single template. However, there are some cases 
where a template can save a lot of time and overhead. This document 
provides users with the individual tools to mix and match as 
they create software projects.
```

# Existing Templates

> There are a couple open source projects that provide a high quality template 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some open source projects that provide high quality templates
```

that can be useful in software development. If your project falls under the 
range of capabilities they have you can save a lot of time by using them or 

> adapting them to start your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that can be useful in software development. You can save time by using or adapting these templates to your needs.
```
